GPS information - DOP vs EPH/EPV (#3368)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/gps_compass/index.md

Compass calibration for an included compass part is covered in: [Compass Configuration](../config/compass.md).

## GNSS Data Overview

PX4 uses the subset of information that can be provided by most GNSS modules.
This is written to the [SensorGps](../msg_docs/SensorGps.md) uORB message and used by the estimator as an input to global position estimation.
It is also streamed via MAVLink using messages such as [GPS_RAW_INT](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#GPS_RAW_INT) and [GPS2_RAW](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#GPS2_RAW).

Some of GNSS terms that are useful for interpreting the data include:

- `DOP`: Dilution of position (dimensionless).
  This is a measure of the geometric quality of satellite positions and their effect on the precision of the GPS receiver's calculations.
- `EPH`: Standard deviation of horizontal position error (metres).
  This represents the the uncertainty in the GPS fix latitude and longitude.
- `EPV`: Standard deviation of vertical position error (metres).
  This represents the the uncertainty in the GPS fix altitude.

### DOP vs EPH/EPV

DOP is a measure of the potential for high accuracy based on satellite positions.

> EPH/EPV are more comprehensive, as they consider both satellite geometry and other error sources like signal noise and atmospheric effects.

Author: ```suggestion
EPH/EPV are more comprehensive: they are direct estimates of the GPS position error and consider both satellite geometry and other error sources like signal noise and atmospheric effects.
```
